# Market Making on Number of Citibikes

## Computing Confidence Intervals
To make a market on the number of bikes at a time in the future we must come up with a range or confidence interval. We process the citibike historical data by dividing into 15 minute time buckets for a given day of the week. So, an example bucket is Tuesday 11:30-11:45 and another example is Friday 15:45-16:00. We then assume that the number of bikes coming in and going out in any 15 minute time interval is distributed independently Poisson. This is a good simple way to model the distribution because we can view bikes arriving and leaving as occurences in a Poisson process since bike has a small probability of being moved and there are many bikes. Furthermore the bike movements are largely independent. For instance, suppose we want to speculate on the total number of bikes 45 minutes from now. Let $X_1$, $X_2$, $X_3$ be random variables for the number of bikes entering the station and $Y_1$, $Y_2$, $Y_3$ are r.v.s for bikes leaving in the three adjacent 15 minute intervals. Then $$X_1\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{in}^{(1)})$$ $$X_2\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{in}^{(2)})$$ $$X_3\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{in}^{(3)})$$ $$Y_1\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{out}^{(1)})$$ $$Y_2\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{out}^{(2)})$$ $$Y_3\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{out}^{(3)})$$ We can get the mean values $\lambda_{in}^{(1)}$, $\lambda_{in}^{(2)}$, $\lambda_{in}^{(3)}$, $\lambda_{out}^{(1)}$, $\lambda_{out}^{(2)}$, $\lambda_{out}^{(3)}$ using historical data from 2022 onwards. Then, the total number of bikes entering 45 minutes from now is $X=X_1+X_2+X_3$ and the total number of bikes leaving is $Y=Y_1+Y_2+Y_3$. Since the sum of Poisson random variables is also Poisson with the parameter lambda being the sum of individual lambdas, we have that $$X\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{in}^{(1)}+\lambda_{in}^{(2)}+\lambda_{in}^{(3)})$$ $$X\sim \text{Pois}(\lambda_{out}^{(1)}+\lambda_{out}^{(2)}+\lambda_{out}^{(3)})$$ The net change in the number of bikes is $$\Delta_{bike} = X-Y$$ The difference of two independent Poisson variables is the Skellam distribution so we get that $$\Delta_{bike} \sim \text{Skellam}(\lambda_{in}, \lambda_{out})$$ where $\lambda_{in}=\sum_{i} \lambda_{in}^{(i)}$ and $\lambda_{out}=\sum_{i}\lambda_{out}^{(i)}$ Now that we have an approximation for the distribution of net change in bike count, we can compute confidence intervals around the mean. Using scipy's scipy.stats.skellam object we use the interval function to get the confidence intervals for a given probability level.
